---
title: "The High King"
journal: "Setting Compendium / Myths & Legends"
source_uuid: "JournalEntry.SXu41X2NifZaSVqh"
type: ember.lore
tags: [ember, setting-compendium]
---

# The High King

- Origin: Early Human
- First Recorded: Directly after the Shattering, the modern account was transcribed in  AS979 by [[Laeora]].
- Knowledge: Well known by [[Kelmezian]][[Kessian]], [[Rhivan]], [[Tayan]], [[Cascilian]], [[Waerd]], [[Arcturian]] & [[Ordani]].

> [!quote] Read Aloud
> > In the blackened dawn of the sunless age, a mythical warrior figure of legend strode the surface world. When the Shattering turned the clouds to cinders, the High King stood unbowed, a shield for the weak and a terror to the Malvorn. Alongside his Sorceress wife, the Lady Jena Frostfire, they held back the shroud from the beyond, unbowed by terror. Fenra raised the First Throne from the wreckage of the Sun Tower and cast down the first dragon, ensuring that mortals would endure forevermore. Now, though his crown is lost to the sands, his One Heroic Spirit remains, a phantom that flickers into existence in our darkest hours, to answer the cries of those facing insurmountable evil.
>
> ~Laeora

King [[Fenra Irdragon]] was the legendary leader of the proto-[[Kelmezian]] culture and the early Human Kingdoms following the events of the [[The Shattering]]. Born in 20 SY, Fenra was the only son of Fentwe Irdran, King of Masia, and his wife, Queen Leonor. He grew quickly, becoming a skilled scholar even while being schooled in swordcraft and weaponry by his father. His early life was happy enough, as his parents shielded him within the palace, yet a shadow had lain upon Masia for many years. The [[Aedir]] kept a firm hand over King Fentwe and forced him to enact unpopular laws, including a yearly tithe to prevent the Aedir from deploying a garrison to the city.

In 2 SY, Queen Leonor was killed openly by the [[Aedir]] for organizing a resistance movement among the people of Masia. King Fentwe was outraged and beyond reason; despite his advisors warning him that it would mean certain death for his people, he declared war upon the Sunfire Empire, executing its advisors and diplomats within the palace. Prince Fenra was then tasked with bolstering the city's defenses and training its people for war, a role in which he blossomed into a fearless leader and commander.

He traveled across the Aran Peninsula to Kortra, Lortu, [[Ancalen]], Nasjar, and even to distant [[Old Carinth]] in secret to strengthen ties between the Human Kingdoms. He often spoke publicly within city squares and towns, preaching of justice, honor, and freedom. It is said that Prince Fenra encountered the Shard God [[Malae]] during these travels and he unknowingly helped her with simple tasks. Retrieving water, bringing food, and clearing her home of debris, while she hid her powers and true nature. Malae eventually revealed herself to Fenra and, thanking him for his kindness, gifted him a powerful charm of protection: a silver necklace set with a glowing red stone.

While in Nasjar, Prince Fenra encountered Lady Jena Frostfire, a skilled [[Signborn]] mage, and her small school of students. They were at first combative and were said to dislike each other immensely. However, after Fenra spent several weeks in the city attempting to convince the King of Nasjar to join their efforts, Lady Jena became enamored with his youthful ideals and sense of justice. It is thought that the two became lovers the night before Prince Fenra left Nasjar, although some believe this happened later.

Returning to Masia in 0 AS, Fenra and his father heard news of a great fleet being arrayed upon the shores of the [[The Starshield]] by the Aedir to the east, and that doom would soon fall upon them. While his father despaired, hearing that the forces deploying against Masia were the 1st Host, legendary imperial warriors commanded by the heir to the Sunfire Throne, Fenra remained resolute. He was bolstered by the commitment of the other Human Kingdoms and the fury his people felt toward the tyranny from across the seas.

Late one night, he was joined by Lady Jena, who brought him to a large palace chamber filled with hundreds of cowled figures. Jena revealed that she had found and convinced many fellow mages, wizards, and sorcerers to aid their cause. Standing within the center of the chamber, Prince Fenra was shocked to discover that the assembly knelt before him, pledging their loyalty to him personally. Many had heard his words and ideals as he traveled from city to city, and his legend had already begun to spread.

## The Shattering

In 0 AS, during the height of summer, the greatest calamity in history struck the Aedir in a night of unimaginable destruction. The [[The Shattering]] annihilated the Aedir nearly instantaneously, including the 1st Host arrayed upon their ships along the coastline of [[The Starshield]]. Masia, which lay upon the eastern edges of the Aran Peninsula, suffered greatly in the immediate aftermath, as earthquakes and shards of the Sun tower fell upon the city, yet a sense of satisfaction spread throughout the population. After all, had the Aedir not been stopped by some great force or fate? Alas, this feeling of relief and triumph lasted only a few weeks.

As the forces of the young nations stood allied together to face a common foe, they were, by some stroke of fate or design, perfectly positioned to confront a new coming shadow. While the sky still burned, Masia was attacked by creatures of utter evil and terror. The city was engulfed in a black fog that the people called the [[The Abyss]] as horrific Monsters arrived upon the World of Ember for the first time, quickly becoming known as the Malvorn. Overwhelmed and dismayed, the people watched as only the combined strength of the magical adepts arrayed within the city prevented a total collapse. In the fighting, King Fentwe was killed in front of the palace, his body mutilated and carried away by the horrors.

During this battle, a strange calm seemed to surround the young Prince Fenra; those around him were shocked to discover he had become akin to a tightly controlled, raging fire. The alien monsters died wherever he walked, and his presence even gave them pause as he sprang from one front to another, defeating one after another with incredible feats of strength and skill. He rallied the people of Masia, and after a terrible night of fighting and slaughter, the Shroud finally cleared.

While the initial attack on Masia had been repelled, the attackers by the Malvorn did not relent, and as the days and weeks passed, they attacked again and again. With the help of the assembly of magical adepts, Prince Fenra aided the other cities of the Aran Peninsula, appearing where he was most needed alongside his core group of fellow heroes and warriors. At some point in the fighting, he was joined by the young Shard God Maltkasa, who struggled mightily to aid their cause. However, the power arrayed against them was unrelenting, and Fenra’s friends began to fall, one after another, until at last only Prince Fenra and Lady Jena stood back-to-back against the monsters surrounding them.

It was then that the unexpected occurred: a strange red and golden glow began to shine forth in the sky above. It spread across the heavens to encompass the world, and its strength banished the Shroud utterly. The surviving Malvorn cowered and despaired, fleeing into the [[Pathways]] of Ember.

## The First Throne

With the immediate threat of the Malvorn seemingly banished, Prince Fenra turned his gaze toward the monumental task of rebuilding. The [[Aran]] was a landscape of broken monuments, hidden monsters, maddened creatures, and displaced peoples; yet, under Fenra’s guidance, a new era of cooperation and slow reconciliation began. After he was crowned with a simple iron band as the King of Masia, a hasty ceremony devoid of trapping or fanfare, he traveled once more between the battered walls of Kortra, Lortu, and Nasjar, [[Ancalen]], and the distant cities of the north not as a warrior, but as an architect of peace. He organized the clearing of the Shrouds' residue and oversaw the restoration of vital trade routes and farmlands, ensuring that the famine following the Shattering and the arrival of monsters did not claim the lives of those who had survived the slaughter.

During the following winter, however, monsters emerged from the Pathways to attack the city of Masia and other cities, and Fenra realized that desperate measures were required. After consulting with his gathered allies, he decided to undertake one of his most mythical feats. Recognizing that a new age required a new foundation, Fenra led a daring expedition to the Starshield. He was joined by Lady Jena, the Shard Goddess [[Raineka]], and the Historian [[Laeora]].

The journey across the seas was long and arduous, aided in part by the ancient god of the storms, [[Katu]]. The small party of heroes landed upon the broken shores of the once glittering realm. What they encountered there was said to be a host of nightmares, newly created undead spirits and ghosts, terrifying new monsters, and the still-smoking ruins of a people laid low. Seeking to reclaim what remained of the Aedir’s power, Fenra traveled deep into the Starshield to the ancient city of [[Ruined Towir]], within the Sun Tower itself. The journey was a harrowing descent into evil and the lingering corruption of the Shroud. His party of companions prevailed, however, and Fenra discovered a small artifact, one that some say was a lingering echo of the Aedir’s last Emperor or a fragment of their lost power.

Fenra returned to Masia in triumph. Using the artifact and scattered fragments of the Sun Tower, he forged the First Throne, a massive structure and fortress on the eastern shores of the Aran Peninsula. This seat was more than a symbol of power; it was a metaphysical bastion. By binding the artifact's magical power to the throne's stones, Fenra created a sanctuary that radiated a subtle ward of protection that seemed to repel the Shroud and monsters of all kinds. This ward could be replicated, and a portion of its strength was lent to all the other human kingdoms in the Aran Peninsula and beyond, and it even imbued humans of that era with even greater strength, magics, and abilities. After the completion of the First Throne, Fenra Irdragon was honored to accept the title of High King after a unanimous vote was held in the great chamber by the other kings. It was also here that Fenra publicly recognized Lady Jena as his wife and partner, much to her chagrin and shy embarrassment. Alas, while Fenra celebrated and the young human kingdoms began to finally recover, there was one last threat that threatened the human realms, and few had the foresight to see it.

## Emergence of Dragons

In 7 AS, a few years after the peace of the First Throne had begun to settle, a terror of unimaginable proportions descended upon the world. Tamorderin, the first of the great [[Dragons]] of Ember, appeared in the summer sky. The beast was so immense that it blotted out the sun, casting a shadow of doom over the land. In a single night of fire and blood, Tamorderin sacked and burned the city of Lortu, massacring its people and leaving the proud walls a smoldering ruin. No one could have known that such horrific beasts of evil and unparalleled strength and power could possibly exist, as Tamorderin dwarfed the ancient powers of Leviathans and even the Shard Gods that tried to stand against it.

Refusing to let the young kingdoms be extinguished, Fenra and Lady Jena led a vast army forth from the First Throne. With a sound said to echo into the halls of legend, this host of humanity rode like thunder, with the hooves of Kitnen rising and falling like the drums of clashing gods. Arrayed against the first dragon, they finally found it feasting on the remains of a large town in the northern lands, and with the blaring of great horns, they charged the beast of fire and blood.

The clash was said to be cataclysmic as the greatest army of humanity, bolstered by the magic of the First Throne, stood against the primeval fury of the first great dragon. Swathes of mighty warriors perished with every fiery breath of the beast, but the mortals fought on. Spears rained down upon its hide like iron needles, and arrows ripped through its wings, shredding them in tatters. Magic swirled in chaotic vortexes, and lightning thundered through the smoke-choked air as the mages of the Assembly threw every spell of destruction they could muster at the roaring, snarling beast.

At the center of the carnage stood Fenra. Witnesses claimed he seemed to shine with an inner golden light, a radiance that matched the ferocity of the dragon’s flames. In the final, shattering confrontation, Fenra faced the monster head-on, standing alone as warriors of the Throne lay dead and dying around him. Lady Jena, gravely injured and watching in horror, looked on as Fenra delivered the killing blow, slaying Tamorderin and ending its reign of terror. But the victory came at a terrible cost. His crown broken and shattered, Fenra lay mortally wounded, his lifeblood spilling onto the scorched earth alongside that of the dragon.

A slow, somber procession brought the dying King back to the eastern shores, to the sanctuary of the First Throne. There, surrounded by his remaining allies and his beloved Jena, Fenra passed peacefully. Yet, death did not claim him as it did others, and his spirit did not rise and travel to the Spiritlands. Instead, as his final breath left him, his body dissolved into a bright, golden mist that shimmered in the air before disappearing entirely.

## One Heroic Spirit

In the years following his death, and in the centuries that have unfolded since, [[Fenra Irdragon]] has been sighted again and again across the World of Ember. His manifestation is described as a vision of stillness, grace, and immense power; he appears not as a ghost, but as a calming presence that defies the darkness. He is not a deity to be worshipped from afar, nor is he a restless undead bound by sorrow. Instead, Fenra has crystallized into an entity of profound strength, a warrior-king of justice who retains all his mortal memories and his tireless willingness to aid those in dire need.

Across the ages, he has appeared on crumbling battlements when all hope was lost, or stood beside a lone traveler facing a monster in the dark. He does not speak, but his presence acts grants them the courage to stand unbowed against the impossible. To this day, many across the scattered kingdoms still regard him as the one and true High King of their people. They believe that while crowns break and cities may fall, the King of Masia still walks the hidden paths of the world, waiting for the moment when a hero's cry reaches across the veil.

> [!quote] Read Aloud
> > He is the reminder that even when the world shatters, and the sky burns, a single man can hold the pieces together if his heart is true. He does not come for the kings or the powerful; he comes for the person who refuses to kneel before evil.
>
> ~Laeora
