---
title: "Hulg'run"
journal: "Setting Compendium / Ancestries"
source_uuid: "JournalEntry.emberAncestries0"
type: ember.lore
tags: [ember, setting-compendium]
---

# Hulg'run

Hulg'run are one of the more unusual and distinct ancestries upon the surface [[World of Ember]] They originated as squat stone constructs that the ancient Giant culture of the [[Shent]] used for mining, exploring, and construction. They often squeezed into small spaces to manipulate delicate machinery and navigate small passages and, even today, remain diminutive in size and scale compared to other ancestries. After their awakening, they ceased to have a unified form, and their variety and general appearance exploded with diversity. A Hulg'run's primary physical characteristic is the stone choice used to create their bodies. This can be almost anything from the geological record, from granites, sandstones, igneous rock, or even gemstones. This can lead to a wide variety of appearances, and some families of Hulg'run return to ancestral quarries for symbolic, ritualistic practices and communion with certain rock types they find alluring or beautiful. Sometimes, Hulgrun will eschew wearable jewelry and instead adorn their bodies with inset precious stones and metallic inlays and patterns.

Hulg’run are often described as incredibly slow shapeshifters, and each individual can choose how they appear, changing the structure of their bodies, face shapes, colors, materials, and gender on a whim. This process is slow, however, and may take several weeks or months to settle and morph fully. They may also require a physical connection to a rocky element to transform into it, with some Hulgrun carrying small rocks and gemstones for future use. Hulg'run faces and bodies are often rendered with angular, simple shapes, appearing more like carved statues rather than smooth biological skin. Some Hulg'run instead shape intricate details so fine that they seem like living organic stone. It is not uncommon for a Hulg'run to take on the appearance of the people around them or to be deliberately made in the image of others.

A Hulg’run’s eyes are among their most detailed areas and, in almost all cases, are contrasting precious stones or gemstones that glow softly in the darkness. This glow is linked to their spiritual connection with the world around them and fades upon their death. Their eyes may also be faceted instead of round and appear carved like a polished jewel with a darker pupil and a shining geometric iris and sclera.

### Biology

Hulg'run are made entirely of stone without any inner organs except an inner core of magical material called a Spirit Core. This is an extremely potent magical element infused with Lifeforce and a Soul from the [[Heart of Ember]] and the reason Hulg’run became a sapient ancestry. Because Hulg’run are infused with magical energy, they can move their stone bodies in an almost unimaginable way, stretching, shifting, and twisting without cracking or damaging themselves. Because they do not possess organs of any kind, they do not consume food like most organic life forms; instead, they can absorb minerals and energy from materials by holding them in their hands, and they can do this with practically anything, such as traditional foodstuff, rocks, woods, and metals. They also do not breathe and can survive underwater and in some incredibly dangerous environments. When they “sleep”, they can sit quietly and slowly draw upon Lifeforce directly through the ground to energize themselves. This process can help injured Hulg’run regenerate their body but may take them several days or weeks to fully heal, depending on the injury.

In almost all cases, a Hulg'run will live for a respectable three hundred years before their bodies begin to wear down and their Spirit Core starts to fade. An older Hulg’run may experience “cracking”, where small chips and cracks will appear in their joints, causing movement to become painful and slow. In rare cases, especially spiritual Hulg'run that develop a close connection to Lifeforce, can reenergize their Spirit Core indefinitely, and they become effectively immortal. This often elevates that individual's power and usually results in the creation of what is frequently referred to as a [[Wild Gods]]

Because Hulg’run are made of stone, they are incredibly hardy and strong and have an impressive resistance to some physical attacks. However, this comes at a heavy price, and a Hulg’run has a number of weaknesses in certain situations. They are especially prone to bludgeoning attacks, and when hit with enough physical force, their limbs can shatter and break away. Thankfully, a Hulg’run can survive extreme injuries, and there are even reports of Hulgr’un managing to survive having their heads shattered. They can regrow limbs slowly over time, even while meditating. Hulg'run are very heavy and cannot jump very far, often only a foot or so into the air or across gaps. Hulg’run do not breathe, but they require contact with air to survive and are damaged slowly by a lack of oxygen, as oxygen is imperceptibly absorbed through pores and cracks to sustain their Spirit Core. Its efficiency allows it to survive in thin atmospheres for extremely long periods. However, they cannot ignore gas-based hazards, complete oxygen deprivation, or complete submersion in water, as it would quickly choke the Spirit Core. This makes large bodies of water especially perilous, as Hulg’run cannot swim and would sink quickly to the bottom, where they would slowly suffocate.

> [!warning] Gamemaster
> #### Hulg'run Heritage
>
> Sexual reproduction between different ancestries is very possible and can result in children with mixed ancestry, but Hulg'run cannot reproduce with other ancestries — they create their own children with one another, using a process through which they slowly craft a Spirit Core from stone and infuse it with Lifeforce over several days. When crafting their children, Hulg’run deliberately create basic and blocky shapes and as a Hulg’run child matures, they begin to refine and adapt their own bodies as they see fit.

### Cultural Connections

Hulg'run were created long before the events of the [[The Shattering]] and were allied with the [[Shent]] Giants for thousands of years. As such, they were deeply ingrained in their culture, and many Hulg'run were destroyed along with their creators during the Shattering itself. Those that survived were aware of Shent's plans to create two new ancestries, the [[Keth]] and the [[Kivahr]], and they became the teachers and protectors of these young ancestries for many hundreds of years, surviving in enough numbers to continue reproducing themselves. Since that time, Hulg’run are still heavily incorporated within Keth and Kivahr cultures across the continent of [[Aterica]], such as the [[Strider]], the [[Kithil]], and the [[Bejak]]. There are even some incredibly ancient Hulg’run that remember the Shent and still teach their lessons and spread their wisdom to younger generations.

Beyond these cultures, the Hulg'run are sometimes found in small family or clan groups, as miners and explorers or simply living peacefully in remote locations, some still holding onto the cultural practices of the Shent. A small number can be found across the Arctus Plateau among the [[Arcturian]] and within the glittering great city of [[Ordain]]. There is only one place where Hulg’run refuse live, alongside the [[Varún]] Giants in the hinterlands and lowlands of the Spine of Ember. All Hulg'run seem to have an instinctual resistance that borders on disgust for the Varún culture, believing they betrayed the Shent Legacy.
