---
title: "Keth"
journal: "Setting Compendium / Ancestries"
source_uuid: "JournalEntry.emberAncestries0"
type: ember.lore
tags: [ember, setting-compendium]
---

# Keth

Though the ancient Giants of the [[Shent]] culture have long been gone from the surface of Ember, many view the Keth as their spiritual successors, made by the Shent to survive and thrive where the ancient Giants could not. Physically, they are a sharp contrast to their creators, usually standing about three feet tall on average and rarely growing taller than four feet, with large eyes and an orange-red undertone to their skin.

Physically, the most distinctive feature of the Keth is their unsettling facial structure. They talk, eat, and speak similarly to other ancestries, with only a hint of large teeth behind their smiling lips, but the two lines below their cheekbones allow them to open their mouths impossibly wide, revealing a maw of large, sharp teeth. Many who are unaware of this trait find the revelation disturbing or frightening, and Keth across cultures generally keep this aspect of themselves hidden behind wraps, masks, or coverings.

Keth appear to share some of the Shent connection to the Elemental Moons of Ember. Their hair often changes depending on the moon cycle, glowing or glittering with tiny stars that augment its natural colors of black, grey, and white. The swirling patterns created by this glow are believed to be linked both to the current lunar movements and an individual Keth's spiritual state or moods. Their moods are also known to be affected by the moons, with the strongest effects generated by [[Orbis]], the Spirit Moon. When it is at its zenith, Keth are often more excitable, passionate, and prone to seemingly chaotic behavior. That this rarely ends poorly for them is often thought to be tied to the moons as well, as if they give the Keth some sort of preternatural luck.

### Biology

Keth are short, squat, and slightly more blocky than [[Human]]. Their bones and internal organs are similar to Humans, but their smaller size and lesser endurance makes them slightly weaker and more susceptible to physical attacks. Their large teeth and jaws, while impressive and intimidating visually, are not particularly powerful, and may have been designed by the Shent as a way for the Keth to scare off larger predators.

Their blood, like their hair, glitters — it is a sparkling white with tiny flecks of an unidentifiable shiny material that appear to serve no true purpose, and shines more brightly when any moon is at its zenith. No scholars have yet been able to determine why, as it functions in the same way as blood from any other ancestry.

Whether due to their blood or not, Keth have an aversion to complex machinery, and often feel a physical repulsion when in the presence of complex constructs. The more complex the machine, the greater this aversion becomes, with some Keth feeling burns and other pain simply by holding complex construct parts. As a result, it is rare, though not impossible, for Keth to become artificers.

> [!warning] Gamemaster
> #### Keth Heritage
>
> Sexual reproduction between different ancestries is very possible and can result in children with mixed ancestry. Players can play as characters with mixed ancestry, but this requires consultation with the GM and may not be ideal for first-time players or GMs. See [[Biology]] for more information.
>
> Though Keth are a created ancestry, and do not descend directly from the ancient Jarn, they are compatible with other Humanoids on Ember. Some believe this was a purposeful choice by the Shent to give the Keth the best chance to thrive and spread their connections with the moons. Indeed, individuals with Keth heritage often report feeling a connection to the moons of Ember, though it may not be as visible or as strong as in their Keth ancestors.

### Cultural Connections

The Keth were created by the Shent for unknown reasons shortly before the events of the Shattering. Many presume that it was a way for the Shent to continue their spiritual traditions and preserve some of their culture before dying out, but their reasons are lost to history. During the Shattering, the Keth survived, fleeing in all directions from the Spine of Ember. Those who traveled East founded the lunar-focused Kithil culture, which functions almost exclusively during nocturnal hours, while those who traveled West settled in the massive trees of the Corebright Forest, founding the nature-focused Striders.

During the present age, Keth are a common sight across the Human kingdoms and nations of [[Aterica]]. They are pretty happy to integrate themselves into a wide variety of cultures, and many have made their way to the Arctus Plateau and [[Ordain]]. In a testament to their ubiquity, [[Arcturian]] and [[Ordani]] have no issues with a Keth’s strange wide smiles and teeth, and Keth don't tend to hide their faces in any way among those cultures.
