---
title: "Ancient Door"
journal: "Gazetteer / Forest of Stone Gazetteer"
source_uuid: "JournalEntry.ForestStoneGazet"
type: ember.lore
tags: [ember, gazetteer]
---

# Ancient Door

> [!warning] Gamemaster
> #### Gamemaster's Summary
>
> This location exists within the [[Verdant Paths]] in ⬢ s.3202.2865, as a vast ancient doorway created by the Shent Giants.
>
> - This location is depicted by the "Ancient Shent Door" composition of [[Vista: Verdant Paths]].
> - This location is featured in the [[An Ancient Door]] event.
> - Its appearance on the region map changes depending on the [[An Ancient Door]] outcome of that event.

### Environment

Around the ancient door, the area appears completely overgrown with verdant plants, trees, and vines. An almost imperceptible hum is generated by the door itself, which seems to repel both moisture and natural decay, giving the door an almost ageless feel. The doorway links different areas of the [[Verdant Paths]] to an isolated and unexplored section of [[Dripstones]] that was sealed away by thousands of years ago.

### Ecology

The doorway and the surrounding cliffs are overgrown with creeping tendrils, thick vines, and heavy growth of moss, which leaves the structure partially obscured and slick with moisture. Surrounding the door are several large trees with pink leaves of various shades.

### Lore

This massive stone door blocking the path here is a colossal monument of reinforced stone and star-wrought bronze. It was constructed over three thousand years ago, before the Shattering by the Shent Giants. During the height of the Abyssal Shear, as the fabric of reality frayed, the Shent performed an act of desperate sacrifice: they lured a powerful Abyssal monster into these twisting passageways of the Forect of Stone and triggered a series of wards as they battled the monster to a standstill. Because of the airtight nature of the Shent door, the region beyond has remained a frozen snapshot of an era long thought lost.

Currently, an expedition from the Anachraenum, the Fulgerite Blades, has set up just outside the door and is attempting to gain access. The Fulgerite Blades are a trainee group hoping that the investigation into the Shent Door and the revelation of what lies inside will catapult their careers, unaware of the menace lurking in the shadows.
